we'll bring in our senior political
analyst mwan Bashar joining us here in
the studio so obviously I mean Algeria
will be hugely disappointed being the
ones that put forward this draft
resolution mwan but on the point um
about the US this resolution was really
widely supported by all UN members so
does this move the US vetoing the
resolution isolated even more at the
UN oh yes absolutely I think generally
speaking the United States has grown
more isolated around the world including
after Ukraine but nowhere is it as
isolated as it is on the question of
Palestine because at the end of the day
the United States is still a prosperous
leader in the world it's a mighty
country it's a rich country and uh you
know with with tens of bases all over
the world it's it's just it's present
and it's popular in many countries when
it comes to Palestine it has brought on
itself isolation in order to be at the
service of
Israel and in this case at the service
of an Israeli government that is
basically genocidal that's fanatic
that's Neo fascist that Biden himself is
demanding that this government changes
and at the same time he goes on the
United Nations and defends this
government and shoots down a very simple
and Noble idea which is the right of
self-determination the inable right of s
of a people now it was what it has has
become Petty when the United States you
look at at the 193 countries around the
world and you say the
Palestinians that helped
establish different countries in the
Middle East itself the Palestinians who
are some of the most educated people in
the world with the highest literacy the
Palestinians who were able to build a
society and an authority under
occupation those Palestinians are not
ready to have a state
really so the justification for the
American decision is just false and
transparently so now there is this
understanding that the Americans tried
to push quite strongly that they support
the idea the principle the vision of a
Palestinian state but this is not the
time but as the Palestinians have been
saying again and again when is the time
I mean since 1993 the Americans have
been making the Palestinians and the
Arabs promises that they never fulfill
for three decades the United States
supervised sponsored a peace process
between Palestinians isans and it always
took the Israel's line it was the
Israeli lawyer the Israel advocate in
the negotiations and now once again it
insists that it's only the United States
that can bring about a two solution and
peace in the Middle East except this
time they want to they want to have more
Arab countries pay higher price in order
for Israel to be satisfied this
genocidal Israel should be rewarded for
its genocide with more
recognition more Aid more sponsorship
more arms and more diplomatic protection
this doesn't make sense for much of the
International Community and for those
people who are voting today 12 of them I
mean how do you explain what sheab was
just talking about a moment ago when he
was saying that the US was actually
threatening to pull the funding from the
United Nations if this vote were to go
ahead why is this so concerning for the
US what worries them about this it's the
thing uh that has to do when it comes to
do with Israel in the Middle East as I
was mentioning earlier it's my way or
the highway that's the United States and
its PX American in the Middle East so
when it comes to its interest and
Israel's interest things have to be done
the American way otherwise the United
States will veto wherever the resolution
a and will send armadas to the east
Mediterranean and will in fact get
involved in yet another war or at least
in a military campaign as we've just
scene few days ago when they got
involved militarily in the Middle East
in defense of Israel I mean suddenly the
United States also dragging along the UK
and France and so on so forth the old
Imperial Powers the Old Colonial powers
are back in the middle east fighting for
whom for what why now so it's this this
this idea this phrase this American
phrase you know it's called inside
baseball my way or the highway basically
says either I run the show or no one's
going to run the show
either I will
be managing the party or I'll be the
party pooper basically and that's what
happens at the United Nation now why is
this at at this critical moment why is
this important and why it is reckless on
the part of the United States it's
because the support for Palestine is
across the board around the world in the
world societies and among the world
governments the governments who don't
dare it's just because they've been
strong armed by the United States the
absolute majority of people and
countries the unit in the in the world
today support the pales in fact the
Palestinian cause has never been popular
around the world just when Palestine
itself has been suffering more than ever
before in its history just look at
what's happening in Gaza in the West
Bank in Jerusalem and so on so forth so
uh what are we to make of then the
numbers that we saw today is it
significant that we had countries like
France for example vote in favor of this
resolution oh absolutely absolutely as
we've heard from our correspondent the
fact that a good number of countries now
who usually abstain voted for tells you
that the UN Security Council is the
terror Council in the words of the
Israeli Ambassador and by the way
because we we you know we broadcast this
we are responsible as Al jazer we
broadcast this stuff and sometimes or
not sometimes a lot of times
politicians lie right I mean they lie
for their countries especially with
diplomats that's what they do their job
is to sometimes lie for their country
but not one
thing the Israeli Ambassador said today
was correct not one thing factually and
otherwise everything from how countries
become independent how countries became
accepted in International Community how
Israel became accepted as a member of
the community after it committed Terror
and genocide in Palestine in 1947 to 19
49 it was accepted as a member it wasn't
just doing some Terror actions here and
there it was committing genocide in
Palestine and it yet it was recognized
as a member of the United Nations most
of the countries in the South who gained
their independence from Colonial Powers
did so but with the use of
force only a few gained their
independence peacefully because the
Imperial Powers decide to be you know
this it's time to go so everything he
was saying to day was just humbug total
BS but it passed but be that as it may
Israel is totally isolated like the
United States is totally isolated and
apparently con isolation is a bit
contagious between Israel and the United
States what you worry about here is that
the United States is too important of a
country around the world it is too
important of a country it is a
superpower and it does have a huge role
to play in the Middle East and it is sad
it's a sad day when the Biden
Administration boxes itself in behind
the Nan government vetos again in the
United Nations security Council when the
United States supposed to be leading the
way for a true peace based on the
recognition of Palestinian rights for
self-determination all right Maran thank
you so
much well make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from Al
jazer